# *Pop Hits

*Introduction* 

Have you ever listened to a song and you knew exactly in what kind of situation you listenend to it before? Did you ever get the feeling that a certain song was connected to a special moment and if you listen to it you could immediatly tell when it was? Did you ever remembered the feeling you felt during that one special song and it felt like a throw-back, remembering the feeling, the thoughts, the circumstances? 
I started this project with thinking about what I am interested in and what kind of music I listen to the most. After a while I decided that I wanted to work with popular music, since this is the genre that I have been listening to for years - at least in my freetime at home. So I decided to have a look at the charts from 2000 and 2018 because I thought in these 18 years there has been a huge change when it comes to popular music, especially taking in account the major hip hop/rap rise with "Drake", "XXXTension", "Post Malone" and so on. After comparing the Billboard Top Charts from 2000 to the songs from 2018 I realized that this two playlists didn't satisfied what I had in mind. So I decided to change my project from this to a rather personal, based on selfmade playlists project. I have been using Spotify for years now, listening to music for ceveral hours every day; I love the variety of music, the ability of creating your own playlists, the premium account with no ads, better sound quality and of course the ability to download playlists which allows me to listen to my playlists anytime anywhere. 

I made my first own playlist in January 2014 and ever since continued to make in irregular intervals new ones, containing new but sometimes also songs which I had listened to in previous playlists. I would simple name the playlist like the month I made it in and select different songs from my old playlists or playlists Spotify suggested to me. After I while, when I didn't like the music anymore or got bored by it I would make a new one. Espacially in the last two-three years I started using Spotify on a regular basis, listening to music on my phone and laptop, sometimes just as a quiet background music, however more often espacially for the purpose of enjoying it, which is the reason why I have chosen playlists from 2016 and 2018. Every now and then I listen to my old playlists and like to remember what happened during the time I would listen to it the most. With some songs I had the sensation they were somehow connected to one special moment, one special feeling and listening to it would make me feel like it did back then. Espcially in the last few mentioned years I experienced a lot of unique events which is why decided to have a closer look at them and see if my music tastes has changed. 

# Content of the playlists 

First, I will explain the content of my 2016 playlist and afterwards move on the recent, 2018 made one. The playlist contains mostly songs which were popular back in that year. It also contains a lot of german music because I went to a small festival organized by a german band ("Kraftklub") with a lot of german artists, for example "Casper", "Prinz Pi" and "Frittenbude". Furthermore, there are quite a lot of rock socks since I went to another festival which is called "Rock am Ring". As the name already suggestes most of the artists are from the rock genre, like "Bring me the Horizon", "Volbeat" and "Billy Talent", but there are also a few german rappers, for example "Alligatoah", and pop bands, e.g. "Major Lazor" or "Panic! at the Disco". Before I went to the festivals mentioned above I listened to playlists I made containing all the artists that I liked and wanted to see. Lastly, I added throughout the year some songs Spotify would recommened to me or songs that I found "by accident" for example by clicking on a random song or songs people would tell me about.
For the playlists in 2018 I used the same methods. Again I went to "Rock am Ring", this time big rock bands like "Rise Against", "Foo Fighters" and "Muse" made it into various playlist but also other bands from the festival like "Walking on Cars" and the german rapper "Casper" got added. Additionally, some more soft artists, more or less from the Indiegenre and some more rock bands catched my eay. My music taste varied a lot last year - I had some month were I would only listen to music one could descripe as soft and girly like whereas in other months most of the songs were made by rock and alternative bands like "Starset" and "Mayday Parade".  
